# Bioresource-Project
A nice example of a bioresource engineering project



This system uses 3 DHT22 sensors, which measure temperature and relative humidity (RH). These sensors are comprised of a resistive humidity sensor, a NTC thermistor and an integrated circuit (IC). The temperature and measurement range are respectively, -40-125 °C ± 0.5 °C and 1-100% ± 2-10% (Dejan, n.d.). The temperature range over a 24-hour period in a greenhouse ideally range between about 18 °C to 24 °C with humidity ranging from about 50-70%. So, DHT22 sensors will comfortably cover the environment range in question. 

The working principle of both temperature and humidity will be outlined. Resistive humidity sensors are used which measure the electrical conductivity, or resistance, across a non-metal substance between two electrodes (Dejan, n.d.). As the humidity changes in the environment, the non-metal substance will absorb or release water vapor, affecting its conductivity of the material. This material is often a solid polyelectrolyte or conductive polymer (Anusha, 2017). The measured resistance is outputted to the IC, which processes the data and sends the digital output to the microcontroller, in our case an Arduino Uno. The relationship between the RH of the environment and the resistivity will vary based on the material, but generally there is an inverse exponential relationship between the resistance and RH (Fujimoto, Maeda. 2000).  

The NTC thermistor used to measure temperature has a similar working principle to that of the RH sensor described above. They are made of ceramic or polymer, whose resistance changes in relation to the ambient temperature (ResistorGuide, n.d.). NTC stands for ‘negative sensor coefficient,’ indicating the resistance decreases as the temperature increases, which can be seen on any characteristic NTC curve. This characteristic curve is non-linear and can be approximated with a variety of equations, although the most precise is the Steinhart-Hart equation. Like the aforementioned humidity sensor, within the DHT22 sensor, the resistance is measured and the IC then processes this data and sends the digital data to the microcontroller (Dejan, n.d.).

DHT22 sensors are used often for their low cost and generally good accuracy. The maximum sampling rate of the sensor is 0.5 Hz, yielding 1 sample every 2 seconds, which should especially be taken into account whenever data is taken within short time windows. In this system, the arduino is used to communicate the data between the sensors and output them to LabView, where it is mapped in 2-D. The arduino also transposes this data into an array to ease the communication with labview. 
